# Predicting crop yield based on weather and soil using Machine Learning techniques

Climate change can have far-reaching effects on agricultural productivity, as well as the yield and quality of crops. Adverse weather conditions such as droughts, floods and cyclones can damage crops and lead to lower yields, while changing temperature and precipitation patterns can also have a negative impact. There are ways to mitigate these effects and safeguard crops against climate change. One approach is to use sophisticated technology such as weather forecasting to give farmers warning of conditions so they can take steps to protect their crops. Additionally, judicious use of fertilizers and other inputs can also help boost crop productivity. In this paper, four machine learning methods like Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, Naive Bayes and MLP Neural Network are used for crop prediction which model is the best for the system. The system was designed for regions with a South Asian climate, such as Bangladesh, India, and certain African and European countries like the UK which is based on the weather and rainfall patterns in those areas. The inspiration for this paper is to evaluate the correct model so that the farmers can know the correct information through crop prediction and ensure that they can produce the correct crop according to the weather forecast and soil conditions. Performance metrics or evaluation metrics have been used to evaluate the models used in the project to get a better understanding of the model and understand whether the model works well for crop prediction. The system described in this paper has been found to come up with a suitable model to determine how much fertilizer to apply to which crop by providing accurate information to the farmers. By using this it is possible to get good results by predicting suitable crops. MLP Neural Network has achieved 99.77% accuracy and Mean Absolute Errors are low rather than the other used models in the project.
